all right so we've now got some darts
are downloading so it's time to do
something with it
so let's start by having another look at
the XML in the browser now I'm going to
use Chrome because we can view the XML
in a much clearer way than some other
browsers Chrome's inability to render
the RSS feed is great when you want to
view the feeds XML so I'm going to open
a browser and I'm going to go to
apple.com again Apple calm and forward
slash RSS we're going to have a look at
the top 10 free apps which was the RSS
we've been working on and there's the
XML so you can see there so if in closed
down or collapse any tags we're not
interested in by clicking on these
little triangles here and that can help
us to remove some of the clutter and
give us a better feel for the data so
I'm going to collapse this first entry
tag here and we can see that it's
followed by another and if I keep
collapsing them you probably won't be
surprised to see that there's 10 of them
in all so let's go ahead and do that and
there's the 10 or collapse so these
empty tags contain the information on
each of the applications that are in the
top 10 free apps feed now all this stuff
at the top is the information about the
feed itself so there's a title for the
iTunes Store top free apps and the
author's name in iTunes door down here
and we can see when the feed was last
updated but we're not going to be using
any of that in our app we're going to be
concentrating on the information in the
actual entry tags so I'm going to expand
one of these entry tags again and we can
see the individual fields that we're
going to be using now the information
we're interested in from the feed is the
name the artists release date and
summary now the entries also contain
links to an image for the app and we're
going to add a field to store that as
well now we won't be displaying the
image in this app but having the URL
we'll make it easier if you want to add
the image once we've first seen how to
do that so what we're going to do is
parse out the individual fields from the
XML so we're going to do a start by
creating a basic class that we can use
to hold the information now this class
has really no more than a way to store
the individual entries that we extract
from the XML now I'm not saying you
should do this and I'm not saying you
shouldn't but I'm going to put our feed
entry class in the same file as main
activity so I'm doing this again just to
show you that I can Kotlin doesn't have
the same restriction as Java so there's
no requirement so that a class must be
in a file with the same name and because
this is such a simple class it's a good
way to demonstrate that but one thing I
would suggest is if you put a very small
class in the same file as a major class
and activities pretty major
it's where the app starts then put it at
the top if you put it at the end of the
file it's very easy for people to not
notice it's there and they would also
suggest that if a class takes up most of
the screen and it really should go in
its own file but as far as Scotland is
concerned it makes no difference either
way so we're just considering people who
may come along afterwards to read and
maintain our code and remember that that
person could well be you
plants down the road of course if you
work for a company whose style guide
prohibits putting more than one class in
each file than you'd want to obviously
follow their guidelines all right so
what I'm going to do is go back to
Android studio
and making sure that I've got two main
activities okay to be opened and I'm
going to come up here and add the class
entry starting on line 9 so I'm gonna
start with class feed entry and we add
the opening and closing curly braces and
we need to add some field so it's going
to be var name colon string equals an
empty string two double quotes bar
artists colon string equals two empty or
two double quotes var release date
so release date string equals two double
quotes bar summary : you guessed it
string equals in two double quotes and
finally the image URL that's also gonna
be a VAR image URL that's also a string
and we're neutralizing it to an empty
value so as I said it's a very simple
class and it just holds properties for
the data that we're going to extract
from the RSS feed now each time we
create a new instance of feed entry
it'll store the details from one of
those entry tags that we just looked at
in the browser now when you create a
class it's often a good idea to create a
two string method that can be used to
print out a representation of a class
instance
now here it'd be useful to display some
of the fields now we can actually get
Android studio to generate the basic
stub for us so to do that we want to
make sure that the cursor is at the end
of the class but before the closing
brace I'm going to put it there and then
we use ctrl o to generate the code we
want to come down here and choose to
string to get Android studio to create a
basic to string method for us so I'm
just going to press ENTER there and you
can see it's created that function for
us now part of the reason for including
this is to show you a neat feature of
Kotlin when it comes to dealing with
strings we've already used template
expressions also known as string
interpolation and we're going to use
some of those here but Kotlin also
provides an easy way to create
multi-line strings now we do that by
using triple quotes so what I'm going to
do first is delete the super call in our
two string function that will just
return the default details in our class
and we're going to add some extra code
instead so I'm going to type return
three double quotes enter name equals
dollar name enter artist equals dollar
artist enter release date
equals dollar release date and gimme 2
RL equals dollar image URL then we're
going to finish that with three triple
quotes like so so the neat thing about
that using triple quotes in this way is
that we're going to get each property
printed out on a new line now because
we've formatted the code with spaces to
line everything up we also get a load of
spaces at the start of each line now
that's not a huge problem but it's
easily fixed we just tell Kotlin to trim
off the indentation so to do that at the
end of the closing triple quotes we type
dot trim indent we're adding a call to
the trim indent function now that will
only work if you put a name on a new
line like I've done here if it was
underlined above it would have no
indentation and the trim indent uses the
line with the smallest indent to work
out how many spaces to delete now we'll
leave in the user interface for this app
until last which in which means we need
somewhere to tell that everything's
working okay so in case you had guessed
we're going to use this two string
function to display our entries in the
log now every object has a two string
method that's used to provide some sort
of textual representation of the objects
instances now by default it just shows
the name of the class and the instances
hashcode which is just a number that
uniquely identifies each instance but by
overriding the two string method we can
get a more useful representation of each
object so that our log will make a lot
more sense all right so that's the feed
entry class created every time we get a
new entry in the data we're going to
create a new feed entry object and set
the fields to the values that we find in
the XML data we no need to create the
code to parse the XML in other words to
fire the various fields that were
interested in and extract the values
we're then going to store those values
at some s I mentioned in the individual
feed entry objects now the good news is
that we don't have to write loads of
code
to go through that stream of XML
checking for the less than and greater
than symbols to look at where the tags
are than working at the values and so on
now we could do all that if we really
wanted to but parsing XML is a very
common thing for an app to do so there
are libraries included in Java that take
care of all of that for us now there are
some Kotlin libraries for parsing XML
starting to appear but I don't want to
add external libraries to our projects
just yet
and also the Java libraries have been
tried and tested for many years so we
know that they work well all right so
the library will deal with working out
where the tags are and which bits of the
XML are the actual values and so on we
can then use the library to read the
values for the tags that we want so what
we're going to do is create another
class to handle the parsing now I'm
going to put this one in its own file
we're going to do that by right-clicking
the package up here Academy don't learn
programming got ten top ten downloader
right click you click on new and select
cotton class Kotlin file slash class
we're going to call this one pass
applications but don't press ok just yet
because notice that the kind of thing
that we're creating here is a file now
that's fine everything will still work
if you leave it at that but you have to
type in the class declaration so instead
what we're going to do is change that to
class first and enter Australia will
then do so on the typing for us now the
icon is also a bit different for Kotlin
files and classes that may be useful to
help you identify the tops of file in
the project pane now if the file only
contains a single class it has that CK
icon if you then add another class or
some code outside the class it changes
like the icons showing for main activity
so I'm going to click OK now and we'll
get our new class created ok so you can
see Android studio has created that
class for us now it's always useful to
write log entries to see what's going on
so I'm going to start by adding our
usual log tag
then we're going to build up a list of
feed entry objects these will be created
as we pass each of the entry tags in the
XML and will be stored in an ArrayList
so I'm going to call this one
applications so that bowel applications
is equal to ArrayList the diamond
operator feed entry then outside the
diamond operator we're going to have
parentheses alright so that's the basic
setup done what we need now is the
function that'll parse the XML data and
create the list of applications from it
now I'm going to call this function pars
because that's what it's going to do
let's go ahead and create that so it's
going to be fun pars and in parentheses
XML data colon string and then colon
boolean then left-to-right curly braces
to define the function and the actual
code we're going to start by putting a
log d the parentheses tag come up that's
going to be passed called with dollar
sign external data we've put their
status equals true on the next slide
next line there in entry equals false
looks like their text value equals an
empty string two double quotes so this
function takes a single argument which
will be the string two pars now I've
made this function return a boolean
value if there are any problems it will
return false to indicate that the data
couldn't be passed for whatever reason
the variable status is initialized to
true and will be set to false if an
exception is thrown
now the code will also have to make sure
that we're processing the data inside an
entry tag now that's important because
and I switched back to the XML in chrome
here you can see that a name tag can
appear outside of the entry
tags this is the case up here there also
appears in here as well we've got the
name here as well so basically you can
appear within the author tag as well as
inside an entry now we know where to go
adding that name the first one outside
of the entry tag into a feed entry
object so to deal with that we'll keep
track of whether we're looking at the
tags inside an entry or not and they're
getting back to Android studio that's
using this variable in entry now text
value that's used to store the value of
a current tag so that we can assign it
to the appropriate field of our feed
entry object and in terms of processing
we're going to wrap up that processing
inside the try block so let's go ahead
and do that try we're going to do a
catch parentheses ecole an exception and
we're going to put a dot print
stacktrace if we do get an exception and
set status equal to false as i mentioned
and then outside of that we're going to
return status now haven't specified any
particular exception here so if anything
goes wrong any type of exception will be
caught if that happens the status will
be set to false and we're printing out a
stack trace to help us diagnose what
went wrong then we're gonna return the
status which will be false if there was
an error otherwise it'll be unchanged
from its initial value of true all right
so the next few lines of code we're
going to add set up the xml classes that
are part of java
so let's go ahead and do that and that's
going to be within the try block I'm
gonna type Val
factory equals XML pull parser factory
I'm selecting that from the drop down
dot new instance on the next line
factory dot is namespace aware we're
sitting there equal to true and I'm
going to do the next line of Val x PP
equals factory dot new pull parser the
line after that we're going to do X PP
dot set input
when I set that to XML data dot reader
then we're going to do VAR event type
equals x PP dot event type var current
record is equal to feed entry and then
we're going to put while parentheses
event type is not equal to XML pull
parser dot end underscore document and
I'm gonna leave that part empty for now
so lines 23 22 through 24 they're
responsible for setting up the job or
XML parser that's going to do all the
hard work of making sense of the XML for
us now the important thing too is to
know how to use the parser it's not
necessary to know how it works now I'm
going to explain the way it's used in
our code here but if you actually want
to learn more about pool passes then
you'll find plenty of information online
you know the pull parser size I'll just
briefly bring them up in a browser now
you can see there it's a violent with
wwx ml poor org then explains about it
and what's more it also contains the
link to the java api documentation
towards the bottom of the page and the
other thing to note is there's also
Android documentation available well
briefly gonna have a look at that this
is for the XML pull parser again and
that gives details on all the constants
and methods available now you can't just
go creating instances of pull parser
objects as you need them so instead if
we go back to our code the API provides
a factory that will produce a pull
parser object for you now class
factories are common in Java and are
often used when you don't know the
actual class that's going to be used now
we don't really care which class will
provide the parsing functionality that
we need all we're interested in is that
it in fact can parse XML so long as the
object we get back recognize as the
methods to find in the XML pulled API
our code will actually work with it
now although you can dig a lot deeper
into how all this works and investigate
all the various functions available the
beauty of using the supplied Java
classicism you don't actually have to do
that in order to get results once you
know how to create the objects you can
just use them without worrying about
what they're doing behind the scenes now
obviously when you get into more
advanced stuff and you may want to
understand what's happening more but
when you're just starting out it's okay
to just use the built-in classes to get
the job done so by the time we get to
line 25 we have a valid pull parser
object so we can tell it what to pass by
giving it a string reader that's using
the XML data string now a string reader
by the way is a class that treats a
string like a stream so thinking about
it's an efficient way of processing
strings and the way that the Y XML pull
parser does things now you probably saw
it pop up that it wanted a reader when I
typed the opening bracket after said
important so the XML pull parser needs a
string reader to read from and a string
reader needs a string to read which is
what we've got on line 25 there Kotlin
makes that a lot easier it provides an
extension function that returns a string
reader for us already set to read from
our XML data string all right so let's
finish the video here now in the next
video we're going to talk a bit more
about the pool paths or and also the
reader just to clarify and then move on
to adding more code to our parse
function so I'll see you in the next
video